New Core Feature: 

Random Night Events. Sometimes, when night comes, random events can occur, sometimes dangerous, sometimes helpful, and sometimes... strange. No spoilers, but there are plenty of them!


New Mobs:

Adult Batalisks will now spawn from Bat Caves, and sometimes from open cave entrances
Scorpions now spawn in the desert during the daytime, burrow back into the ground at dusk
Pollen Mites. These aggressive bug clouds will latch onto a variety of mobs, causing them to enrage and target nearby players. If they latch onto a player, they will deal periodic damage and reduce the time until sneezing
Pollen Mite dens will appear during spring, and will grow, and spread, creating more dens. Fire can be helpful for dealing with the dens, but be careful when using fire around Pollen Mites themselves! I recommend the new Bug Zapper weapon against them both.
Pineling - Axe do an entry or leave it a suprise?

New Food Resource: 

Rice Plants! Rice plants will grow in patches of water inside the swamp. Rice is helpful against hayfever, and can be used to cook new foods.


New Weapons: 

Bug Zapper. Does extra damage to insects, lightning damage when fueled.
The Morning Star and Bug Zapper can now be refueled using new fuel type: Battery.
This includes Electrical Doodads, Canary Feathers, Frazzled Wires, Electric Milk, and Potatoes
Updated Trapdoor Spider sprites
The Morning Star now protects the player from lightning strikes


New Feature: 

Added challenge altar near the Florid Postern. Activating it will... what again? (Also I want to add a 20% faster starvation to it)
New: Mactusks camps will now appear during the summer, wearing stylish sunglasses, a summer shirt, and bringing fire hounds instead of ice hounds


ITEMS:

Thulecite Armor now gives knockback protection, and 40% sanity aura reduction
Dapper Vest now gives 40% sanity aura reduction
The Insulated Pack is no longer burnable
The Cookie Cutter Cap now reflects 75% of damage taken back at the attacker, and releases 5 damage spikes in an aoe
The Glass Cutter now does 12 more damage to shadows (80)
The Ice Boonerang now heals over 20% of its durability when repaired with ice
Doubled Ice Boomerang freeze on hit amount
Players wearing the bone helmet will no longer spawn the Creeping Fear, and are no longer able to be hit by shadow projectiles.
Ice-Flingomatics now hold 20% more fuel, but lose a small amount of fuel every time they fling ice - Cheese prevention
Moggles now act as sandstorm/snowstorm goggles


THE WORLD:

Rare crop Crockpot Foods have increased stats (AXE PLS)
Players can once again overheat in caves, with a 40% slower temperature rate, and only the minimum level of overheating damage
Antlion sinkholes will now cause ruptures in boats
Raindrops will now splash into green puddles, and will play a sizzle sound effect, indicating when Acid Rain is active


MOBS CHANGES / FEATURES:

Spider Warriors, and Depth Dwellers will now counter attack when attacked
The Toadstool now only drops Shroom Skins on death (Raised amount dropped to match health based drops)
Bees, Mosquito's, and the new Scorpions will now reduce a players time until sneezing when attacking
Mosquito's now take on a new look during spring
Pigmen and Bunnymen refuse to murder their own races, but will still watch companions do so.
Abominamoles now have a snowball belch attack
The Ancient Guardian now knocks players back when attacking (helps prevent chain stomps/falling rocks)
Pengull's will now only aggressively target players when they are in their ice puddle
Clockworks are now immune to fire
Clockwork Bishop no longer flees between attacks
Luxury / Gobbler Fans will now reduce hayfever by a large amount
The Raid Boss Dragonfly will now fly away during summer, or if there are bosses nearby - Cheese prevention
Frogs will now eat food on the ground

A little mean spirited surprise for players, be careful around suspicious rocks...


CHARACTER CHANGES:

WALTER & WOBY: 

Walter can now craft Firecracker Rounds out of nitre. Firecracker rounds will deal 17 damage on hit, and will explode 8 times, dealing 5 damage per explosion.
Woby can now be killed, and targeted by a select few hyper aggressive mobs. She will respawn after half a day.
Woby can now eat Monster Morsels
Woby will run slightly further away from threats
Walter takes 50% more hayfever damage from hayfever damaging mobs
Walter has a lower minimum and maximum time till next sneeze after sneezing

WORMWOOD:

Wormwood now takes an additional -5 sanity from digging up plants, no more infinite sanity gain from sapling digging/planting, its not equal loss and gain
New Wormwood edible craftable: Honey Log Roll. Reduces hayfever for all characters, increases hunger, better stats for Wormwood and Woodie
Wormwood's Bramble Husk armor will now periodically shoot out spikes when potentially dangerous mobs are nearby, lowered their damage to compensate
Wormwood can be effected by Hayfever damagers, such as Pollen Mites, and Bees

WARLY:

Added new Warly specific crockpot dish: Zaspberry Parfait (GET DETAILS FROM AXE/ANOMEN)

WILLOW:
Willow will now instantly light things on fire during winter
Willow's immolation explosion will no longer hit players and basic companions

WOLFGANG:

Wolfgang now gets knockback resistance when mighty


CROCKPOT FOOD BUFFS:

All changes to dishes took into account these different qualities priorities ranging from top to bottom:
-[1] Amount of farmplot foods used in a single dish.
-[2] Rarity of farmplot foods used in a dish.
-[3] The stats restored by optimally eating their raw ingredients in Uncompromising Mode.
-[4] The overall diversity of ingredients used in a dish.
-[5] The similarity of a dish's ingredients to another may change the focus of a particular dish (For instance, salsa fresca focuses on Sanity to differentiate from Creamy Potato Puree which focuses on Hunger).

----Rare
Creamy Potato Puree hunger buffed from 37.5 Hunger to 100 Hunger. [1] [2] [3] [5]
Salsa fresca Hunger reduced to 25 and Sanity increased to 50. [1] [2] [5]
Stuffed Pepper Poppers Hunger increased to 50. [2] [3] [5]

----Uncommon
Pumpkin Cookies now restore 40 Hunger 33 Sanity and 15 Health. [3] [4]
Stuffed Eggplant now restores 40 Hunger and 15 Health. [3]
Asparagus Soup now restores 25 Hunger 30 Health and 20 Sanity. [3]

----Common
Fish Tacos now restore 62.5 Hunger 15 Health and 5 Sanity [4]
Vegetable Stinger now restores 30 Hunger and 10 Health [4]

A reminder is that you are now limited to one ice and one stick for making crockpot dishes that do not already require more than one of either of them.


TUNING:

The Creeping Fear will now try to get closer to the player before attacking.
Sleeping now halts hayfever
Increased minimum and maximum next sneeze time after sneezing
Lowered maximum ice/twig filler from 2 to 1 (Banana Pops or Melonsicles withstanding)
Removed Toad Rain during Acid Rain event
Tree Guards no longer recoil from attacks
Reduced the Wilting Dragonfly's damage by 15%
Increase Batalisk health to 75 from 50
Tuned Terror/Nightmare Beak lunge, feels much more fair and balanced
Hayfever overlay is a bit more green now
Reduced Spore Pack recipe from 2 > 1 Shroom Skin
Reduced Air Conditioner recipe from 3 > 2 Shroom Skin
Increased warning time when players are close to sneezing
Snowstorms moving overlay is 10% more transparent now
Catcoons do much more damage to rats

BUGS/CRASHING/FIXES
Fixed some Action related crashes with mod compatibility
Cooking Unagi no longer crashes the game
Hayfever should now properly turn off if disabled in the configuration menu
Updated new recipes to fit in with our other crockpot changes
Multiple Deerclops should no longer spawn on the surface
Fixed Trapdoor's readding duplicate components
Fixed crash related to the Wilting Dragonfly losing its burning spit target
Toadlings, Toads, and Frogs should now all get along
Fixed many of the new sounds from being too loud, and heard too far away
Birds now must digest food before being taken out of the cage or being fed more
Surf N Turf now has a maximum limit of 1 Monster Meat
Using looping emotes should no longer skip the sneeze animation
Wortox now correctly shows his health nerf on the character selection screen
The Ancient Guardian's boulder attack will now only target living players
The Dread Eye's mini Shadow Eyes will now be more transparent based on sanity
Reloading a world after killing the Bee Queen will no longer reset hayfever - Keep in mind you can still sneeze when getting hit by Bees, Mosquitos, Etc.
Wormwood and Willow should no properly become flammable when reviving
Added new map icons for various new items
Monster Morsels no longer defy gravity when on a drying rack
Fixed issue where rat burrows would duplicate when a world is loaded, and would disappear after duplicating if loaded again. Caused infinite rats.